[CUBRIDMAN-254] Manual for COUNT_ONLY optimization and Enhancing group_concat() (#560)
CUBRID/cubrid-manual: en/sql/tuning.rst

                1            2            3
                4            5            6

The following example shows an optimization that reduces unnecessary scans when the **SELECT** list only contains **COUNT(*)** when using a covering index.

.. code-block:: sql

    -- insert dummy data
    INSERT INTO t select rownum % 8, rownum % 100, rownum % 1000 FROM dual connect by level <= 40000;
    
    -- csql> ;trace on
    
    -- count(*) optimization
    SELECT count(*) FROM t WHERE col1 < 9;
    
::
    
    Trace Statistics:
      SELECT (time: 1, fetch: 66, fetch_time: 0, ioread: 0)
        SCAN (index: dba.t.i_t_col1_col2_col3), (btree time: 1, fetch: 65, ioread: 0, readkeys: 1002, filteredkeys: 0, rows: 0, covered: true, count_only: true)

.. code-block:: sql

    -- no count(*) optimization
    SELECT count(col1) FROM t WHERE col1 < 9;
    
::
    
    Trace Statistics:
      SELECT (time: 13, fetch: 180, fetch_time: 0, ioread: 0)
        SCAN (index: dba.t.i_t_col1_col2_col3), (btree time: 8, fetch: 179, ioread: 0, readkeys: 1002, filteredkeys: 0, rows: 40002, covered: true)

.. note::

>     Optimization for **COUNT(*)** when using covering index is supported from CUBRID 11.2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Optimization for **COUNT(*)** when using covering indexes is supported starting from CUBRID 11.2.
```

Reviewer 2: count_only와 group_concat의 성능 개선은 11.3 버전부터 지원합니다. `starting from CUBRID 11.3` 이 맞을 것 같습니다.

.. warning::

>     If the covering index is applied when you get the values from the **VARCHAR** type column, the empty strings that follow will be truncated. If the covering index is applied to the execution of query optimization, the resulting query value will be retrieved. This is because the value will be stored in the index with the empty string being truncated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When a covering index is applied to retrieve values from a **VARCHAR** type column, any trailing empty strings will be truncated. This occurs because the empty string is stored in the index with the trailing spaces removed, affecting the query results when the index is used for query optimization.
```

                1            2            3
                4            5            6

The following example shows an optimization that reduces unnecessary scans when the **SELECT** list only contains **COUNT(*)** when using a covering index.

.. code-block:: sql

    -- insert dummy data
    INSERT INTO t select rownum % 8, rownum % 100, rownum % 1000 FROM dual connect by level <= 40000;
    
    -- csql> ;trace on
    
    -- count(*) optimization
    SELECT count(*) FROM t WHERE col1 < 9;
    
::
    
    Trace Statistics:
      SELECT (time: 1, fetch: 66, fetch_time: 0, ioread: 0)
        SCAN (index: dba.t.i_t_col1_col2_col3), (btree time: 1, fetch: 65, ioread: 0, readkeys: 1002, filteredkeys: 0, rows: 0, covered: true, count_only: true)

.. code-block:: sql

    -- no count(*) optimization
    SELECT count(col1) FROM t WHERE col1 < 9;
    
::
    
    Trace Statistics:
      SELECT (time: 13, fetch: 180, fetch_time: 0, ioread: 0)
        SCAN (index: dba.t.i_t_col1_col2_col3), (btree time: 8, fetch: 179, ioread: 0, readkeys: 1002, filteredkeys: 0, rows: 40002, covered: true)

.. note::

>     Optimization for **COUNT(*)** when using covering indexes is supported starting from CUBRID 11.2.

Author: ```suggestion
    **COUNT(*)** optimization for a single table when using a covering index is supported from CUBRID 11.2, and **COUNT(*)** optimization for join tables is supported from CUBRID 11.3.
```
